
#### This project aims to develop a classification model which outputs a heatmap showing regions of a biopsy image likely to contain cancer. The essence lies in building a thoughtful, end-to-end Convolutional Neural Network prototype to partially replicate what Google brain scientists had done. There are three challenges in this project: 1) Only a small amount of biopsy images is available, which means model trained in a classic way perhaps won’t be generalized well. 2) At higher levels of resolution, each biopsy image is too big to be loaded into the memory even after being sliced into patches. 3) Highly imbalanced classes. Among 70347 image patches, there are 69364 patches in class 0 (negative), but only 983 patches in class 1 (positive) which are about 1.4% of the total patches. Solution to the problems: a) Use the pretrained Convolution Base of the InceptionV3 to resolve the generalization problem, meanwhile, use Data Augmentation, Early Stopping to fight against overfitting; b) Use ImageDataGenerator and flow_from_directory to stream image patches instead of loading them all at once into the memory; c) Handle imbalanced classes by weighting the loss function during training, as well as a set of metrics during training and testing with pre-calculated class_weight. With above techniques, promising and encouraging experiment results have been achieved. ####

#### Please visit https://kundata.github.io/TumorDetectionLocalizationByTransferLearningClassificationModelOnSmallDatasets/index.html for more details on Small Image Dataset Classification by Transfer Learning.


